# Galaxia
> A full-stack and highly-performant computation framework for low-cost weather balloon projects

**Galaxia** is a highly performant application that is intended to power low-cost weather balloon projects. It is intended to be easily installable and deployable, open-source and highly reliable. Because of the fact that it must be installable, we plan to our in-flight device tooling to performantly target support on Android smartphones and Raspberry Pis.

### Required Environments

For the weather balloon device, we require that the device be able to run a Java environment. If you have an Android smartphone or a Raspberry Pi as a payload, you are set!

### What things are you using and why?

* **Java**, a programming language of all portions of the framework. Java is cross-platform, has a huge amount of libraries, is highly-performant, is natively supported by a lot of "Big Data" architectures (e.g. Spark, Hadoop, etc), is portable (having its own virtual machine and generated bytecode upon compilation) and has a lot of language features for threading and multi-processing. Android smartphones for one, support it out of the box. It is also statically compiled, has support for awesome lambdas (functional programming for the win!) and is known by a lot of people!


* **ZeroMQ**, a network abstraction over TCP sockets that allows for easy security enforcement (elliptical curve encryption), best possible message delivery, easily move out your network topology from in-threading to multi-processing to a full-blown server cluster topology.

### Main Components

* **Osiris**, a ground relay server intended to heavily process captured instrumentation and sensor data as emitted by a device (for the purpose of our own weather balloon project, we intend to be using an Android-based smartphone, as it runs on the Dalvik Virtual Machine - allowing us to run a Java application, but this component should work on a Raspberry Pi as well)


* **Horus**, an in-flight data dump receiver (as obtained by Thoth) and relayer (sending the data to Osiris) that is supposed to sit on the host device that is embedded in the weather balloon payload, capturing all the sensor and instrumentation events (as captured by Thoth) and transmitting them to the ground relay server. This is treated as the "master" component on the in-flight payload device.

  * **Thoth**, in charge of abstracting out the various sensors on the in-flight device (and whatever in-flight devices that may be connected against the main in-flight device where Horus is running), emitting a schema-structured payload complete with an identifier and data that is then sent for Horus to manage.

* **Nut**, a highly distributed and stable network architecture where multiple clients and devices can bind together and disconnect at will, without forcing the other clients/devices to go down. This mostly facilitates abstracting out the hardships of unstable network connection for devices on weather balloon payloads and allows for multiple interested clients on the ground, to get live data from the weather balloon payload.